What is this course called what is the title of this course
Foundations of Digital Rhetoric
Who is the professor who teaches this course instructor
Dr. Miles Coleman
What is the professor instructor email
colemanm@seattleu.edu
What is digital rhetoric 
Digital rhetoric is the study of how digital technologies shape methods of persuasion. You’ll analyze the obvious and hidden values and arguments that exist in things like video games, search engines, webpage designs, digital networks, and digital images. 
Why study digital rhetoric what does digital rhetoric offer
Effective communication relies on the artistic abilities of individuals to inform and persuade others. The growing body of knowledge and tools used to understand that art is called rhetoric. Rhetorical criticism is the act of putting that mass of knowledge to work to help us more critically assess the communication we consume, as well as the communication we produce. In our so-called, “information age,” we use media that have within them embedded arguments, implicitly and explicitly persuading us to think, do, and believe in certain ways. The job of the (digital) rhetorical critic then, is to study, analyze, and evaluate the communicative practices and technologies that exist in our publics so that persons can communicate more effectively and more thoroughly appreciate the communication of others. This course is important because someone who knows how to do good rhetorical criticism of digital phenomena is likely also someone apt to understand what it means to communicate well in an era permeated by digital technologies.
What are the assignments for the course
940 pos total: participation (100 pts), 7 Community Assignments (70 pts), 8 quizzes (200 pts), 3 practice analyses (150 pts), 1 artifact proposal (35 pts), 1 artifact description paper (85 pts), 1 feedback report (40 pts), 1 final paper meeting (10 pts), final project/reflection (250 pts). Ask me about specific assignments to get more detail about each. 
Participation
A portion of your grade consists of participation, both online (e.g., on discussion boards, small online activities, e-mail correspondence) and face-to-face (e.g., in class discussions and activities), and is based on frequency and quality of contributions to class. (You can find the specific items to be calculated into your participation score in the assignments list. [For clarity it's probably best to set the display of the assignments list to "type"].)
Community Assignments
There are eight online community assignments. They take various forms (e.g., discussion board posts, and online “pair shares”). You will create your own post and then comment on at least two other students’ work. These assignments are meant to spark conversation and to capitalize on student experience to enrich course material.
Quizzes
There will be four quizzes based on readings and discussion, given every other week. You will be given reading prompts before the readings are assigned from which the quizzes are written. And, before the quiz, you will be given an opportunity to ask clarifying questions about concepts. The quizzes will be multiple choice and short answer, delivered through the course web page.
Artifact Proposal
In the second week of class you will turn in an artifact proposal. In this 1-2 page document you will briefly describe a digital artifact that you would like to analyze for your class project. This paper should provide a rationale for why it is important that this artifact be analyzed.
Practice Analyses
Throughout the quarter there will be three frames of digital rhetorical analysis introduced. For each of these frames you will write a 1.5-2 page analysis of an artifact of your choosing. These practice analyses are meant to help you build material for your final paper. You can find more info on these assignments by clicking on Practice Analysis 1, Practice Analysis 2, and Practice Analysis 3.
Artifact Description/Background Paper
You will turn in a 3-4 page paper that describes the details and background information necessary for an analysis of your chosen artifact. This paper is meant to help you develop the front half of your final paper.
One-on-One Final Paper Meeting
You will meet with me once at the end of the quarter to discuss your final paper. This meeting will require you to be prepared with specific questions about, and possible solutions to, any "rough spots" in your work.
Feedback Report
You will craft a one-page, single-spaced report evaluating and critiquing the writing and media included in the penultimate draft of a fellow classmates’ final project.
Final Project
Working from the foundation of work you have put into the proposal, the description/ background paper, and the practice analyses, you will write a 5-8 page rhetorical analysis of a digital artifact that includes multimodal elements as appropriate, and includes description, method, analysis, and action sections, eightbibliographic citations and, of course, is abounding with insight about digital communication.
Reflection Paper
Using what you discover in the work you do on your final paper, you will write a 1 page reflection paper that affords you a venue to ruminate on the things you might have discovered you had skills or interest in, and things you would like to continue to work on. The reflection asks that you analyze your work, connecting it to course and program learning outcomes to make an argument about your growth and needs for improvement.
Week 1
Defining Digital Rhetoric (F2F), Hahn, L. K. & Paynton, S. T. . Rhetorical criticism. In Survey of Communication Study; Deuze, M. (2006). Participation, remediation, bricolage: Considering principal components of a digital culture. The information society, 22(2), 63-75; Hess, A. (2018 . Introduction: Theorizing digital rhetoric. In Theorizing Digital Rhetoric, Community Activity 1, Student Survey, Reading Quiz 1. 
Week 2
Asking Questions about Digital Rhetoric (At Home), Gunkel, D. (2018. Critique of digital reason. In Theorizing Digital Rhetoric; Ceccarelli, L. The Ends of Rhetoric: Aesthetic, Political, Epistemic. In Making and Unmaking the Prospects for Rhetoric. Lawrence Erlbaum Associate, 65-73; Eyman, D. (2015). Defining and locating digital rhetoric. In Digital Rhetoric: Theory, Method, Practice. University of Michigan Press, 12-60; Science, Art, or Politics Survey, Set up Issue Crawler and Google, Post Draft of Artifact Proposal, Reading Quiz 2
Week 3
The (Digital) Public Sphere (F2F), Wise, J. M. (2018 ). Towards a minor assemblage: An introduction to the clickable world. In Theorizing Digital Rhetoric; “The public sphere.” (2015). Wikipedia; “Technology and the Public Sphere.” (2013) Wikibooks; Papacharissi, Z. (2002). The virtual sphere The internet as a public sphere. New Media & Society, 4(1),9-27; Post Draft of Artifact Description/Background Paper, Launch Issue Crawl, Artifact Proposal, Quiz 3
Week 4
Networked Publics (At Home), Coleman, M. C. (2017 (Links to an external site.)Links to an external site.). Rhetorical Logic Bombs and Fragmented Online Publics of Vaccine Science. Journal of Contemporary Rhetoric, 7(4), 203-216; Baym, N. & Boyd, D. (2012). Social mediated publicness: An introduction. Journal of Broadcasting and Electronic Media, 56(3), 320-329; Rogers, R., & Marres, N. (2000). Landscaping climate change: A mapping technique for understanding science and technology debates on the World Wide Web. Public Understanding of Science, 9(2), 141-163; First Try at Practice Analysis 1, Artifact Description/Background Paper, Reading Quiz 4
Week 5
Materiality and Nonhuman Rhetorics (F2F), Zappen, F. P. (2018). Digital rhetoric and the internet of things. In Theorizing Digital Rhetoric; Coleman, M. C. (2018). Machinic Rhetorics and the Influential Movements of Robots. Review of Communication; Rickert, T. (2013). "The Rhetorical Thing: Objective, Subjective, Ambient." In Ambient Rhetoric; Practice Analysis 1--Networked Public Analysis, Reading Quiz 5, Post Final Project "Rough Plan"
Week 6
Algorithms and Software Rhetorics (At Home), Reyman, J. (2018). The rhetorical agency of algorithms. In Theorizing Digital Rhetoric; “What is an algorithm and why should you care?” (2015). Khan Academy; Bogost, (2007); Procedural rhetoric. In Persuasive Games: The Expressive Power of Video Games; Brown, J. J. (2015). Possibility Spaces: Exploits and persuasion. Ethical programs: Hospitality and the rhetorics of software; Set up Axure and Power Mapper, First Try at Practice Analysis 2, Reading Quiz 6
Week 7
Visual Rhetoric (F2F), Reyman, J. (2018). Pinning, Gazing, and Swiping Together: Identification in Visually Dirven Social Media. In Theorizing Digital Rhetoric; Edwards, J. L. (2009). “Chapter 25: visual rhetoric.” In 21st century communication: A Reference Handbook. Sage Publications, 220-229; Gries, L. E. (2013). Iconographic tracking: A digital research method for visual rhetoric and circulation studies. Computers and Composition, 30(4), 332-348; Harold, C. (2004). Pranking rhetoric: “Culture jamming” as media activism. Critical Studies in Media Communication, 21(3), 189-211; First Try at Practice Analysis 3, Practice Analysis 2--Procedural Rhetorical Analysis, One-on-One Meeting, Reading Quiz 7
Week 8
Putting Digital Rhetoric to Work (At Home), Pucillo, F., & Cascini, G. (2014) A framework for user experience, needs and affordances. Design Studies, 35(2), 160-179; User Experience Basics. (2018 gov., Post Trends Analysis, Practice Analysis 3--Prototype Analysis, Reading Quiz 8
Week 9
Analyzing Digital Rhetoric (At Home), Post Rough Draft of Final Project, Feedback Report
Week 10
Creating/Celebrating Digital Rhetoric/Reflection (F2F), Final Project, Reflection